[Ragnar]
Previously on Vikings...
The great hero is dead.
Kattegat is at our mercy.
I won't really be King.
[Ivar] Oleg will have
all of the power.
How can we change it?
We will make common cause
with our friend Dir.
I wish with all my heart
I could go back
and start again.
Accept the judgement
of the gods.
The situation is bad.
[Erik] They are here.
Why don't you just surrender?
Is that how
our world will end?
You are dying, my love.
I need you to help me
put my armor on, one last time.
It's impossible.
I told you, Ivar,
you can't kill him.
[all shouting]
[shouts in native tongue]
[groans]
["If I Had A Heart" playing]
-[indistinct chatter]
-[bell tolling]
[horse whinnying]
[horse snorting]
[grunts]
[women wailing]
[in native tongue]
[indistinct chatter]
Ivar! Where are you?
Igor? Don't worry, I'm here!
[Ivar grunts]
[sword clatters]
[Oleg] We were defeated.
It's not possible.
We were defeated
by a dead man.
I don't understand.
The great Bjorn Ironside.
He was dead, but appeared
in front of his army
like the resurrected Christ.
Our soldiers panicked.
They ran away.
But it was the officers
who were the worst cowards.
-But if he was dead--
-It doesn't matter.
They must be punished.
Those responsible.
It's not possible
for us to be defeated.
It won't happen again.
It will never happen again!
[birds squawking]
[man shouts]
[man 1] It's a small boat.
[man 2] Who is it?
[man 1] I'm not sure.
Maybe from Kattegat.
[man 2] It's not one
of our ships, is it?
[chatter continues
indistinctly]
[man sighs in relief]
[Ketill]
You're the first settlers
this season. Congratulations.
I bring a message for Ubbe,
son of Ragnar, if he's here.
Here I am.
[panting] Your brother,
Bjorn Ironside,
King of Kattegat...
is dead.
[footsteps approaching]
[door opens]
What do you want?
Go away!
I command you to go away!
No!
[soldiers grunting]
[objects clattering]
No!
[grunting continues]
-Stop!
-[wood creaks]
[sobs]
[soldiers breathing heavily]
Come down here.
I said come down!
What have I done?
I don't know.
I have destroyed
your innocence.
It's time you grew up, Igor.
You're not a child anymore.
Your age of innocence
is over! Gone!
I will no longer
protect or shield you
from the harsh realities
of life.
From now on,
I'll make you face them.
For how else are you
ever going to be King?
[grunts]
[Ubbe] Tell me
how my brother died.
Kattegat was attacked
by the Rus.
A great army,
led by King Oleg of Kiev.
There were two battles,
the first near Vestvold.
In that battle, the Rus,
they overcame us.
King Harald fell,
and Bjorn was badly,
almost mortally, wounded.
We retreated back to Kattegat.
The Rus, they gathered outside.
That night,
Bjorn breathed his last.
In the morning,
a great miracle happened.
He rode out
in front of our warriors.
And, the Rus,
having heard of his demise,
were shocked
and terrified to see him
actually alive again.
Believing him to be a ghost,
those superstitious creatures,
they fled before him
and they never returned.
[indistinct murmuring]
[chuckles softly]
I don't know what to say.
[Ubbe] I do.
Here in this faraway place,
I want to pay tribute
and salute the life
of my brother Bjorn.
Many a time
on the battlefield
I looked to him
for leadership and courage,
and he never failed.
I loved him.
We all loved him.
He was our hero.
I know that he wanted us
to go on this
incredible journey
and to find a new land.
Just like our father,
he wanted to throw off
the shackles of old...
whatever the risk.
He is now in Valhalla
with Ragnar, so there's
no need to be sad.
Fill up your horns,
and let's drink
to the great Bjorn Ironside!
He was my brother,
and he was your brother.
Bjorn.
-Bjorn.
-[all] Bjorn Ironside!
[drumming]
[indistinct chatter]
[laughter]
[all cheer]
[chatter recedes]
[drumming stops]
[Erik] I don't
mean to disturb you.
All these objects were alive
when Bjorn was alive.
They lived in his presence.
But now
they are all cold and dead.
Let me give you
his sacred ring.
He would have wanted that.
Thank you.
I will keep it warm.
Bjorn's death has left
a hole in all our lives.
But it has also left
a vacancy in Kattegat.
The King is dead.
Kattegat has no ruler
and yet Kattegat remains
in the gravest threat
of another Rus attack.
The people
must elect a new ruler.
Ubbe would be
the natural successor
to Bjorn, but he is not here.
But you...
...are Bjorn's wife,
and a great shield maiden.
Proved yourself
again and again in battle.
You gave him good advice,
you are clever,
and you are beautiful,
Gunnhild.
[Erik sighs]
I think you should
summon an Althing,
and I will propose
you as Queen.
I do not think
I am so popular.
Not with the people.
You are popular
with those who saw you fight.
And you are Bjorn's wife.
You are popular by association.
I have no desire to be Queen.
[sighs] I know.
But you know
perfectly well you cannot
decide your own fate...
for it is already written.
[man yells indistinctly]
It seems that there is
a vacancy in Kattegat
for a King.
Hmm.
Why don't you
sail back with your wife
and two children
and claim the throne?
I mean, who will stop you?
And I will remain here
in Iceland as King.
[Ketill stutters] Doesn't that
make sense to you?
Never look a gift horse
in the mouth,
that's what I say.
I will never be King...
not of anywhere.
I am a lot like my father.
He never wanted
to be King of Kattegat.
He hated
the burden of kingship.
And he despised those
who would be anything...
betray any principle or person,
just to seize the crown.
I hope you're not
like that, Ketill.
[panting]
[indistinct arguing
in distance]
-[Ragnar crying]
-[Torvi shushing]
How is my son?
Ragnar is strong. Healthy.
He will be fit to travel.
[Ragnar cooing]
Good.
The two ships
are almost seaworthy.
I cannot wait to go.
-[giggles]
-[Ragnar coos]
I saw Ketill
and Othere today.
They were talking.
So?
Then they argued.
What about?
I couldn't hear them.
The point is--
I know
what the point is, Torvi.
We have to sail with them.
I will talk to them.
Ancient One.
I should have known.
[Seer] What is real now
will not be real tomorrow.
Don't listen to
all the voices!
There are too many voices!
Don't listen.
[horses whinnying]
[men grunting]
[grunting continues]
[horses whinnying]
[horses galloping
in distance]
[Igor] Who are these men?
They are the most
important officers in our army.
Why are they digging a ditch?
They need to be reminded
that they're not as important
as they imagine
themselves to be.
They need to be reminded
to be humble.
[soldier] Line up! In a line!
Line up! Front!
I don't want to watch.
You will do as I tell you.
These officers
betrayed their country.
They ran from the battlefield
like cowards.
I must make
an example of them.
They don't deserve
to be spared.
Proceed!
[grunts]
[all clamoring]
[men groaning and screaming]
[grunts]
Stop!
Please. Please. Please. Please.
Please. Please.
[Oleg] One day
this will be your kingdom.
Show them
what you will do to traitors.
Please, please.
Look up.
Prince Igor,
I beg you for mercy!
In the...
In the name of our Holy Mother!
My wife and children...
I do not deserve to die!
Please! Please, don't kill me.
Please!
Don't kill me, please.
Please.
[grunts]
Good.
Gentlemen.
[soldier] Form up!
Turn!
Forward!
[indistinct chatter]
Gunnhild,
have you made a decision?
I have decided to call
a meeting of the Althing.
Kattegat must have
a new ruler.
Bjorn knew that.
And you
will stand for election?
It depends.
On what?
If anyone will stand
against me.
Have you heard any rumors?
No.
And what about Ingrid?
I have no idea.
And you will support me?
Of course.
You are ambitious.
What would you expect
in return for your support?
Some token of friendship.
You know how much I admire you.
I cannot believe that Bjorn
would take another wife
when he already had you.
-Hush.
-That's what you said before,
at Bjorn's wedding,
but I do not
want to be silenced.
I want to be honest.
Honest about
my desire for you.
-[indistinct chatter]
-[horses snort and whinny]
[Hvitserk] I have to go.
I have an appointment
with Prince Oleg.
What for?
I don't know. He invited me.
Why would
he want to do that?
That's what
I intend to find out.
Well, be careful, my brother.
The Rus are not like us. Hmm?
Hmm.
Come on, Igor. Tell me,
what do you want to do, huh?
-Kill myself.
-[laughs]
It's too early for that.
[beggar] A moment
of your time, sirs.
Go away, you filthy peasant.
I have a story to tell.
I told you to go away!
Listen to my story.
I want to listen.
[indistinct chatter continues]
Prince Dir.
[Dir] I have good news.
I came to tell you
that I'm almost ready
to challenge Prince Oleg.
Many of the returning warriors
have become disillusioned
with my brother's leadership.
They have lost faith in him.
They are ready for a change.
My army will assemble
at Novgorod.
When we have captured
the garrison, I expect you
and Prince Igor to join me.
You will receive a dagger.
That will be the signal
for you to flee from Kiev.
Why can't we go with you?
I hate Oleg. I think
he wants to kill me.
We will not give him
any excuse to do so.
I entrust you, Ivar
the Boneless, to safely convey
the Prince to Novgorod.
It will not be easy.
Oleg is afraid now.
He will become desperate.
He will redouble
the guard on the Prince,
for if he loses Prince Igor,
he loses any claim
to be the legitimate ruler.
I understand.
You are the rightful King
of this great land.
I will see you crowned.
Thank you, Prince Dir.
I love you.
[Oleg] Hvitserk.
Son of Ragnar.
We were thrust
upon each other.
I didn't know
anything about you.
Your brother Ivar
was rather mysterious
about your relationship.
Oh, please, sit.
Be comfortable.
I know
that brotherly relationships
can often be strained.
Difficult. [chuckles]
It's been so
with my own brothers.
Why did you
want to talk to me?
-I like Vikings.
-Mmm-hmm.
I would like to have
a bodyguard of Vikings.
I would trust you
more than my own guards.
[Oleg sighs]
Except, perhaps, for Ivar.
Even though
I love Ivar. [chuckles]
[exhales]
I was disappointed,
of course,
that we failed
to capture Kattegat.
But I'm no longer interested
in attacking Scandinavia
and its peasants.
I believe we should
attack Constantinople.
A richer and much more
attractive target.
Hmm?
You don't say anything.
Sometimes silence is better.
Along the Silk Roads,
the Chinese and Arabs
have given us many things.
Beautiful things.
Splendid things.
Pleasurable things.
Like this.
[sizzling]
[Hvitserk] Uh...
What is it?
It's just poppy seed.
You just smell it.
[Oleg] It makes you happy.
-I, uh--
-Oh, it's just one small sin.
Are you so afraid?
[inhales deeply]
Smell it.
[inhales]
-[breathing heavily]
-[horse grunting]
Whoa.
Is this really the land
that you want to
be King of, Ketill?
[grunts] This harsh, stony,
unproductive land
that is miserable?
You will struggle
the rest of your life
just to survive here.
Think about what
I'm offering you instead.
I have no idea
who you are,
where you came from,
what you believe in,
or even what your
real name is.
Perhaps that is how
it is meant to be.
But I do know we need
to trust each other.
We need you
to come with us,
to help us to furnish
a second boat.
Without you, we can't leave.
Why would you hesitate?
Because it all depends
if Othere is telling the truth.
[Ubbe] We cannot trust Ketill.
But without him, the others,
they would not come.
But I know
that Ketill went mad,
slaughtered an innocent
family without warning.
And in which case,
that could easily
happen again.
If we are at sea
on an open boat,
the... The consequences,
they would be catastrophic.
Unless you and I are willing
to deal with it together.
[Ubbe] His story changes
so often,
it is hard to know
what to believe.
-And yet you want to believe.
-I want to believe.
I need to believe.
If you want to stay here
in this stony wilderness,
then tell me now.
What do you say,
the man called "Othere"?
I say you have a deal.
I need someone I can trust
on this voyage.
You can trust me
well enough.
I don't mean to disturb you.
It's all right.
It is hard to accept
that Bjorn is gone.
Yes.
But at least I have this.
You are with child?
Bjorn's child?
Yes. With Bjorn's child.
It was terrible
when Gunnhild lost the child
she was carrying.
Sadly, we cannot
wait for your child
to become ruler of Kattegat.
These are quick
and desperate times.
The Rus may attack us again,
and yet we have
no King or Queen
to unite behind.
You are Bjorn's wife.
You carry his child.
I think the legacy
of Ragnar Lothbrok
and Bjorn Ironside
should live and continue.
Then I have a chance?
Given the right preparations.
I would like to be Queen.
I know.
Poor Ivar.
What do you mean?
You were hoping
to return to Kattegat
as a King...
weren't you?
Perhaps.
-You wanted to
return to the past.
-[sighs]
You loved your wife.
What was her name?
Freydis.
We are all brought back
perpetually to the past.
You're wrong.
What did she look like,
this Freydis?
Hmm.
She was small.
-Like you.
-Mmm.
But blonde.
She dressed
after our fashion.
She wore her hair... So.
And I trusted her.
She was the one
that told me I was a god.
What do you want
me to say? Huh?
Only what you want to say.
I don't believe
you want to betray Oleg.
You just say that.
And how can I
prove it to you?
Oh, I don't know.
I told you. I can't.
[indistinct chatter]
Is this really want
you want to do, Ketill?
Of course it is.
I don't understand.
Your position
in Iceland is secure.
We don't have to
risk everything on this voyage.
On the contrary. We do.
Frodi understands.
I need redemption.
We both do.
I cannot live
with the ghosts.
We did a terrible thing.
But now we can
do a good thing.
The gods will understand
and not punish us.
If you kept quiet,
they would not punish you.
You have a big heart and
a loud voice, Ketill Flatnose.
I could wish that
you were more subtle.
I do lead with my heart,
I admit.
But I want to be
an honest soul.
Who can fault me
for that?
So we commit our
bodies to the deep.
Life is a journey.
Like death.
We are borne ceaselessly
into the future.
Mmm.
Some on a ship of fools.
[Gunnhild] I wanted
to tell you, Ingrid,
that I have summoned
a meeting of the Althing...
to elect a new ruler
of Kattegat.
I want to know
if you will stand.
I did not think
I would stand...
except for this.
What is "this"?
I am carrying
Bjorn's child.
But, forgive me,
I remember you told me
that you were raped
by King Harald.
So, perhaps the child
you carry is his.
I knew I was pregnant
before Harald raped me.
This is Bjorn's child.
That should have been
my child.
[indistinct chatter]
[Ivar panting]
Hvitserk.
Hvitserk, huh?
[sniffs]
-[indistinct chatter]
-[lively music playing]
King Ivar.
My lady Katia
would like to see you.
-What, now?
-Yes.
[Ivar grunts]
[grunting]
Are you sure?
[Katia speaking
in native tongue]
Huh.
[in native tongue]
[in English] No, no, no.
[breathing heavily]
[both breathing heavily]
I told you so!
Do you believe me?
I'm going to bed.
Good night, Gunnhild.
Do you want
to come with me?
[breathing heavily]
I know that
Dir is still alive.
Please tell me,
has he been in contact
with you?
And where is he?
He came here.
He told me that
his army is assembling
and will soon
take over Novgorod.
We're waiting for his signal.
When the signal comes,
we must spirit Igor away.
Igor is the future.
I know.
[shuffling]
Are you not going to stay?
It would be bad
if the voters saw us together.
I suppose.
We will talk soon.
Of course.
Erik.
What is it you really want?
I think you know.
[music playing]